Modify rule S5147: Change text to the education framework format [Python][APPSEC-232] (#1389)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5147/python/how-to-fix-it/dynamoDB.adoc

> === How to fix it in Boto3 DynamoDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== How to fix it in Amazon DynamoDB
```

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
@app.route('/login')
def login():
    dynamodb = AWS_SESSION.client('dynamodb')
    
    username = request.args["username"]
    password = request.args["password"]

    dynamodb.scan(
        FilterExpression= "username = " + username + " and password = " + password, # Noncompliant
        TableName="users",
        ProjectionExpression="username"
    )
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,python,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
@app.route('/login')
def login():
    dynamodb = AWS_SESSION.client('dynamodb')
    
    username = request.args["username"]
    password = request.args["password"]

    dynamodb.query(
        KeyConditionExpression= "username = :u",
        FilterExpression= "password = :p",
        ExpressionAttributeValues={
            ":u": { 'S': username },
            ":p": { 'S': password }
        },
        TableName="users",
        ProjectionExpression="username"
    )
----

=== How does this work?

As a rule of thumb, the approach to protect against injection vulnerabilities
is to ensure that untrusted data cannot break out of the initially intended
logic.  

> When using DynamoDB with Boto3, the best way to do so is by using the
> expression placeholders (`:placeholder`) which take the value defined in
> `ExpressionAttributeValues`, as seen in the compliant solution above.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using DynamoDB with Boto3, the best way to do so is by using
expression attributes as placeholders (`:placeholder`). It will end up replacing the attribute with the value defined in
`ExpressionAttributeValues` and prevent any alteration of the original query logic.
The compliant code example uses such an approach.
```

When possible, using the method
`query` over `scan` optimizes speed, costs and reduces the attack surface; for
example, in case an injection occurs in `KeyConditionExpression`, the operator `OR` is

> disallowed.  

Reviewer: Not sure I understand how this is related to NoSQL injection.

Author: The first part of the sentence isn't, only the latter referring to the restriction inside `KeyConditionExpression` where the logic operator `OR` is disallowed. Essentially wanted to say to use `KeyConditionExpression` where possible over `FilterExpression` due to the limitations an attacker would have in exploiting such injection.

Reviewer: Ok, then
```suggestion
When possible, use the method `query` over `scan` as it disallows the `OR` operator and therefore reduces the attack surface. It also optimizes speed and costs.  
```

This logic applies both when using the Client and the Resource class, though
the syntax differs for the latter, and the `ExpressionAttributeValues` would look
like the following:

[source,python]
----
ExpressionAttributeValues={
    ":u": username,
    ":p": password
}

> ----

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing to me. Are you referring to `DynamoDB.ServiceResource` or `DynamoDB.Table` (https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/dynamodb.html#DynamoDB.Table.query)?

Author: The latter, will update with the parent name inclusion for clarification.

> Although injection can occur on all the query or scan `Expression` attributes,
> its most severe impact occurs in the `FilterExpression`.  **Note:** Do not use the
> deprecated
> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/LegacyConditionalParameters.html[Legacy Conditional Parameters].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although injection can occur on all the query or scan `Expression` attributes,
its most severe impact occurs in the `FilterExpression`.  

**Note:** Do not use the
deprecated
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/LegacyConditionalParameters.html[Legacy Conditional Parameters].
```

> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/LegacyConditionalParameters.html[Legacy Conditional Parameters].

Reviewer: Why? And, do we raise an issue when it's the case?

Author: Not currently, we are missing sinks. But I thought to add this content in coherence to what was described in the rule previously, since we are covering the most impactful one [currently](https://sonarsource.github.io/rspec/#/rspec/S5147/python).

Reviewer: That's what I thought. I suggest removing it then.

    )
----

=== How does this work?

As a rule of thumb, the approach to protect against injection vulnerabilities
is to ensure that untrusted data cannot break out of the initially intended
logic.  

When using DynamoDB with Boto3, the best way to do so is by using
expression attributes as placeholders (`:placeholder`). It will end up replacing the attribute with the value defined in
`ExpressionAttributeValues` and prevent any alteration of the original query logic.
The compliant code example uses such an approach.

When possible, using the method
`query` over `scan` optimizes speed, costs and reduces the attack surface; for
example, in case an injection occurs in `KeyConditionExpression`, the operator `OR` is
disallowed.  

This logic applies both when using the `DynamoDB.Client` and the `DynamoDB.Table` class, though
the syntax differs for the latter, and the `ExpressionAttributeValues` would look
like the following:

[source,python]
----
ExpressionAttributeValues={
    ":u": username,
    ":p": password
}
----

Although injection can occur on all the query or scan `Expression` attributes,
its most severe impact occurs in the `FilterExpression`.  

> 
> **Note:** Do not use the
> deprecated
> https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazondynamodb/latest/developerguide/LegacyConditionalParameters.html[Legacy Conditional Parameters].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
